Announcement for release 1.27 (#16725)
istio/istio.io: content/en/news/releases/1.27.x/announcing-1.27/_index.md

---
title: Announcing Istio 1.27.0
linktitle: 1.27.0
subtitle: Major Release
description: Istio 1.27 Release Announcement.
publishdate: 2025-08-08
release: 1.27.0
aliases:
    - /news/announcing-1.27
    - /news/announcing-1.27.0
---

We are pleased to announce the release of Istio 1.27. Thank you to all our contributors, testers, users and enthusiasts for helping us get the 1.27.0 release published!
We would like to thank the Release Managers for this release, **Jianpeng He** from Tetrate.io, **Faseela K** from Ericsson Software Technology, and **Gustavo Meira** from Microsoft.

{{< relnote >}}

{{< tip >}}
Istio 1.27.0 is officially supported on Kubernetes versions 1.29 to 1.33.
{{< /tip >}}

## What’s new?

> ###

Reviewer: We probably want (not in this order):
1. Inference extension (link to blog)
2. ambient multicluster 
3. Maybe lightstep support removal?
4. Maybe CRL Support for plugged in CAs?
5. ListenerSet support

@howardjohn Am I missing anything?

{{< relnote >}}

{{< tip >}}
Istio 1.27.0 is officially supported on Kubernetes versions 1.29 to 1.33.
{{< /tip >}}

## What’s new?

### Inference Extension Support

[Gateway API Inference Extension](https://gateway-api-inference-extension.sigs.k8s.io/) is an official Kubernetes project that optimizes self-hosting Generative Models on Kubernetes.
Istio provides a fully compliant [implementation](https://gateway-api-inference-extension.sigs.k8s.io/implementations/gateways/#istio) of the Kubernetes Gateway API for cluster ingress traffic control.

### Ambient Multicluster

Multicluster support for ambient mode is now available in alpha, providing a way to connect more than one ambient cluster together in the same mesh. Note that only multi-network, multi-primary topologies are tested.

### Lightstep Support Removal

In 2022, Istio deprecated its built-in Lightstep integration as part of a broader move toward OpenTelemetry (OTel) and the OTLP protocol. By 1.27, Istio completely removed Lightstep support, making OTel/OTLP the standard for tracing.

> ### CRL Support for Plugged-in CAs?

Author: done

Certificate Revocation Lists (CRLs) is now available for plugged-in CA, allowing operators to revoke trust in root or intermediate certificates.

### ListenerSets Support

[ListenerSets](https://gateway-api.sigs.k8s.io/geps/gep-1713) is now available, allowing a shared list of listeners to be attached to a single `Gateway`.

### Native Nftables Support in Sidecar Mode

> Includes support for the [native nftables](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/knftables) backend in Sidecar mode.

Reviewer 2: The URL was pointing to the knftables library instead of the implementation in Istio.

```suggestion
Includes support for the [native nftables](https://github.com/istio/istio/pull/56487) backend in Sidecar mode.
```

Reviewer 3: We don't link to PRs like this. It's linking to the library we built on.

Reviewer 2: We have the following **issue** for nftables: https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/47821
I hope we can use this link instead if we cant link to the PR.

> or even better, the doc page I suggested in the istio/istio readme PR

Currently, the doc page in the README pr is mostly targeting developers. We can add documentation to istio.io once the nftables implementation for Ambient mode is completed.

Reviewer 2: @zirain can you please replace the link to the Nftables Issue from Istio  https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/47821

Author: updated.

### ListenerSets Support

The new [ListenerSets](https://gateway-api.sigs.k8s.io/geps/gep-1713) API allows you to define a reusable set of listeners that can be attached to a `Gateway` resource. This promotes consistency and reduces duplication when managing multiple Gateways that share common listener configurations.

### Native nftables Support in Sidecar Mode

Istio now supports the [native nftables](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/47821) backend in Sidecar mode. nftables is the modern successor to iptables, providing better performance, improved maintainability, and more flexible rule management for transparent traffic redirection to and from the Envoy sidecar proxy.

Many major Linux distributions are adopting nftables as the default packet filtering framework, and Istio’s native support ensures compatibility with this shift.

Support for nftables in ambient mode is actively being developed and will arrive in a future release.

###

> 

Author: I missed this one, updated.

## What’s new?

### Inference Extension Support

[Gateway API Inference Extension](https://gateway-api-inference-extension.sigs.k8s.io/) is an official Kubernetes project that optimizes self-hosting Generative Models on Kubernetes.
Istio provides a fully compliant [implementation](https://gateway-api-inference-extension.sigs.k8s.io/implementations/gateways/#istio) of the Kubernetes Gateway API for cluster ingress traffic control.

### Ambient Multicluster

> TODO

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Multicluster support for ambient mode is now available in alpha, providing a way to connect more than one ambient cluster together in the same mesh. Note that only multi-network, multi-primary topologies are tested.
```
